JUDY WOODRUFF: And in the day's
other news: The U.S. military
announced the death of Abu
Sayed, head of the Islamic
State group in Afghanistan.
It happened Tuesday in a drone
strike on ISIS headquarters in
Kunar Province in Northeastern
Afghanistan.
A Pentagon statement says
that several other militants
were killed as well.
At least seven people died
today in Egypt in a pair of
attacks that bore the hallmarks
of Islamist militants.
Five policemen were killed in
a shooting south of Cairo near
some of the country's famed
pyramids.
Later, two German tourists
were stabbed to death and four
others wounded at a Red Sea
resort hotel.
In Jerusalem, Arab attackers
struck at Israeli police today
in one of the holiest sites of
both Islam and Judaism.
Three gunmen killed two
police officers before
being shot dead themselves.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner has the story.
MARGARET WARNER: A security
camera captured the opening
of the assault, gunmen coming
from behind to attack
two Israeli officers,
then, a running gun
battle, seen on cell phone
video.
Police gave chase, and one
attacker jumped up and lunged
at an officer before being shot
himself.
MAN: We can confirm that
there was a terrorist
attack that took place.
Three terrorists used an
automatic weapon and a knife
in and around in the area.
MARGARET WARNER: All this at
the holiest site in Jerusalem,
the Temple Mount to Jews, the
Noble Sanctuary to Muslims.
The ancient complex includes
the Dome of the Rock and Al-Aqsa
Mosque, and the Western Wall
surrounding part of it.
All three assailants
were identified as Arab
citizens of Israel.
Relatives say they
were devout Muslims who
frequented the area often.
Israel police quickly closed
the site, a move rarely taken
since the Six-Day War in 1967,
when the Israelis captured
East Jerusalem and its
Old City from Jordan.
Previous closures have provoked
rioting by Palestinians.
Today, Muslims had to pray
outside the shrine after the
closure canceled noon prayers at
Al-Aqsa.
The grand mufti of Jerusalem
had called for Palestinians
to defy the closure.
MAN (through translator): We
have to enter the mosque to
attend the Friday prayers.
Al-Aqsa Mosque is our mosque,
so it is not allowed, under any
circumstances, to be prevented
from reaching the mosque.
MARGARET WARNER: Israeli
police detained the
Mufti for several hours.
Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas telephoned Israeli Prime
Minister Netanyahu to condemn
the attack.
But he also called for
reopening the holy site.
Seeking to ease tensions,
Netanyahu quickly issued a
statement that the status quo on
access to the site
will be preserved.
But the leader of the militant
Islamic Jihad movement in
Gaza City welcomed the attack.
MAN (through translator):
Jerusalem is an Arab and Islamic
land, so when the Zionist
enemy seeks to turn it into
a Jewish temple, one of our
people will come out and stand
in the face of this
plan and confront it
as it happened today.
MARGARET WARNER: In the end,
Israelis and Palestinians
were left to bury their dead
amid fears that the
attack is a harbinger of
more violence to come.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in
this country, the U.S.
Justice Department says
that it will appeal
directly to the Supreme
Court, after a federal
judge dealt another blow
to President Trump's
travel ban.
The judge in Hawaii
ruled last night.
He said the list of bona
fide relationships that allow
entry to the U.S. must include
grandparents, among others.
A federal appeals court ruled
today that county commissioners
in North Carolina violated the
Constitution by starting
meetings with Christian prayers.
The Fourth Circuit case
is also likely headed
for the Supreme Court.
The ruling says prayers
at public meetings are not
inherently unconstitutional.
But, in this case,
no prayers from other
faiths were permitted.
President Trump today
pushed Senate Republicans
today to approve a
revamped health care bill.
In a tweet, he said -- quote --
"Republican senators must come
through as they have promised."
Already, Rand Paul and
Susan Collins have said
that they will vote no.
That means GOP leaders cannot
afford to lose another vote.
The president spent much of
his day taking part in France's
celebration of independence.
This year, Bastille
Day coincided with the
100th anniversary of
America's entry into
World War I. Mr. Trump
joined President Emmanuel
Macron at a military
parade in Paris, complete
with a flyover.
Macron thanked the U.S. for
its role in what the French
commonly call the great war.
EMMANUEL MACRON, French
President (through
translator): We have
also found sure allies,
friends who have
come to our aid.
The United States of
America is one of them.
That is why nothing
will ever separate us.
The presence today of the
American president by my side,
Mr. Donald Trump, and his wife
is a sign of friendship
which has endured time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Macron
later traveled to Nice,
France, to mark one year
since a terror attack
there killed 86 people.
Former President Jimmy Carter
is back building houses, after
being released from a hospital
in Canada.
He became dehydrated yesterday
while working on a project
for Habitat for Humanity.
Today, he returned to the
work site in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, smiling and
wearing work clothes.
Mr. Carter is 92 years old.
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial average gained
84 points to close at 21637,
a new record.
The Nasdaq rose 38 points.
And the S&P 500 added 11, also
reaching a new record high.
For the week, the Dow and
the S&P were up 1 percent.
The Nasdaq gained 2.6 percent.